README.md, before:

# Go Row USA!
[Go Row USA!](https://leah-jala.github.io/Portfolio-Project-One/index.html) is a website designed for junior rowers in the United Kingdom who are thinking about studying and rowing in the United States. Many students and families feel bewildered by the process. This site seeks to present the process in three stages of preparation, communicationw with coaches and the application process once commited to a team. 

It gives as overview of steps in the process and provides curated links to useful information. The way these steps are conceptually organized matches the framework/mentality in which rowers train. I've tested this with rowing friends who immediately recognized this without prompting, and liked it very much.

The site is predominantly relevant to women, as the scholarship and grant opportunities in rowing are almost exclusively for women. 
![Screenshot from amiresponsive.co.uk](/docs/readme_images/responsive.JPG)

## Features

### Global

#### Navigation menu
- The navigation menu contains links to Home, a Timeline dropdown menu and an events page.
- Users can easily navigate the site, and the dropdown menu assists viewing the site on small screens. 
- A favicon star appears on the navigation menu, to help users know where they are. This is also true for the dropdown menu.
![Snip of navigation bar](/docs/readme_images/nav_snip.jpg)


#### Footer
- The footer contains links to social media sites and an email address, presented with icons. These icons are so familiar, that I didn't think it was necessary to add any additional text. To me it looked cleaner without that. 
- This is for the moment a fictional site, but I do intend to replace my Wix site with this website. In future, the social media links will provide future information on news, US university programs, student experiences and events. 
- The links use aria labels for accessibility.
![Screen shot of footer](/docs/readme_images/footer-snip.jpg)

#### Favicons
- Favicons are used through out the site.
- Logo - Use in the header, nav bar.
- Site wide - for visual interest.
- Navigation bar - to assist user in knowing where they are on the site. 

#### Color scheme
- The color scheme is on an American red, white and blue US flag scheme with the hope of enhancing the user experience fun factor. See credits below.

#### Layout
- Each page has similar layout of an image and an introduction box. It gives user a purpose for each page. The timeline, or stage, page images duplicate the ones used on the landing page for each relevant stage, confirming users are in the right place.

### Landing page
- The landing page gives users a general introduction to the site and a short summary of what to expect from each page of the main content, which is the timeline stages. 
- Photos on the webcards match the top images of each page they relate to. As mentioned above, this helps the user know they are in the right place.
![Homepage snip](/docs/readme_images/Homepage_snip.jpg)

### All timeline pages
- The top/hero image of the page duplicates the one on the homepage, letting users know they are in the right place. 

### Prepare page

-This page summarizes the sorts of things young people should take into consideration when making a big decision about studying abroad. The aim is to help rowers make a short list and set recruiting goals.
- The page summarizes points to consider when presenting yourself to teams. This will help rowers make a document to present to recruiters.
- Beneath this text are 2 resource boxes with loads of further information on recruitment and also standardized tests and where and when to take them in the UK. 
- Favicon stars are used to keep the American theme and add interest.

![Snip of Prepare page](/docs/readme_images/prepare_snip.jpg)

### Contact page
- This page gets rowers to think about the sort of questions they should ask to coaches to find the right fit. There is also a box for communicating to American coaches who expect much less "reserved" behaviour, when it comes to showing excitement and enthusiasm.

![Snip of contact page](/docs/readme_images/commit_snip.jpg)

### Commit page
- This page summarizes the things rowers can expect once they commit to a team, including applications, fees and grants.
- Links to further information are provided.
- Favicons are used to add interest and for quick visual scanning. 

![Snip of commit page](/docs/readme_images/commit_snip.jpg)

### Events page
- This is for the present a fictional page, however if it were to take place, Henley Royal Regatta would be a great place for it as a lot of elite junior rowers would be present. 
- There is short introduction to the event in the introduction box and a simple form with the event details and means to register. 

FIX THE RADIO BUTTONS AND ADD AN IMAGE.


## Design

### Wireframes

### Images
- Small screen focus: This will eventually be a live site I will use. I built a Wix site a year ago that I was unhappy with, and I plan to replace it with this. My experience is that most people look at my site on their phones. With this in mind, I built the sight first for the small screen and then larger ones, and created my media queries to adapt to larger screens instead of smaller.
- Conceptual structure supported by images: Rowers will recognize the prepare, communication, commit headers from their training regimes. The images support this too. The first image is post training, the second of the middle of a race and the third is the result. Communication is essential in during a race, and we have a saying that is to "row your own race". It means you should stick to your plan/goals, inspite of what is happening around you. So, with regard to the site, ussers should set their goals/plan in the prepare phase, stick to those goals and communicate them well in the communication stage, and finally come to a good result. The events page photo is clearly an image of an event. The vast majority of rowers coming to this site will have raced on the Championship course, where all our big head race events happen, and they will recognize that is Hammersmith Bridge.



## Technologies
- Compress images: https://tinypng.com/
- Convert to webp: https://image.online-convert.com/convert-to-webp
https://www.freeconvert.com/download

## Website Testing

#### Navigation bar
##### Logo
- Expected: Clicking on the logo from any page brings you to the homepage.
    - Result: True
##### Navigation Menu
- Expected: Clicking on any link in the navigation menu brings you to the correct page.
    - Result: true
- Expected: A favicon star appears at the correct place in the navigation menu on all pages, and in the dropdown menu.
    - Result: True




#### Webcard links on homepage
- Expected: Webcard buttons on homepage turn red when you hover over them. 
    - Result: True
- Expected: Webcard links bring you to the correct page.
    - Result: True

#### Links to other pages

#### Form

#### Footer
- Footer links bring you to the respective sites.
    - Result: True. The envelope opens the email client. All social media links work. 



### Responsiveness

![Snip from Am I Responsive](/docs/readme_images/responsive.jpg)
### Lighthouse
I used Lighthouse to generate reports to audit performance, accessibility, best practice and SEO for mobile and desktops. The first reports I had were low on performance (under 70%) because my image sizes were far too large. I also had to do some minor work to provide the equivalent of the "alt text" on background images.
- Desktop results
![Lighthouse report for desktop](/docs/readme_images/lighthouse_desktop.JPG)
- Mobile results
![Lighthouse report for mobiles](/docs/readme_images/lighthouse_mobile.JPG)


### Validator testing

- HTML Validator
![HTML Validator snip](/docs/readme_images/html-validator.JPG)
- CSS Validator
![W3C CSS validation service](/docs/readme_images/css-validator.JPG)
### Unfixed bugs


## Deployment

## Credits

Aria labels http://www.davidmacd.com/blog/alternate-text-for-css-background-images.html


    


    /* Credits & notes

Dropdown button from W3 Schools - used CodePen to get it right

Prevent grid from overflowing: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43311943/prevent-content-from-expanding-grid-items

*/

Commit message:

Return email icon to footer, test all pages

README.md, after:

# Go Row USA!
## Purpose
While this site was built for the purpose of competing the first Milestone Project for Code Institute's Software Development Course, this site was built with a view to making it a live site to replace a Wix site I made last year.

[Go Row USA!](https://leah-jala.github.io/Portfolio-Project-One/index.html) is  designed for junior rowers in the United Kingdom who are thinking about studying and rowing in the United States. Many students and families feel bewildered by the process. This site seeks to present the recruitment process in three stages, including preparation, communication (with coaches) and the further application process once commited to a team. 

It gives as overview of steps in the process and provides curated links to useful information. The way these steps are conceptually organized matches the framework/mentality in which rowers train. I've tested this concept with rowing friends who immediately recognized this without prompting.

The site is predominantly relevant to women, as the scholarship and grant opportunities in rowing are almost exclusively for women. 

![Screenshot from amiresponsive.co.uk](/docs/readme_images/responsive.jpg)

## User Experience Goals
### First time visitor goals
- The purpose of the website should be clear.
- The site should be easy to navigate.
- It should be easy to return to previously viewed content.
- It should be clear which part of the site you are on.
- A user should be able to find out more on social media platforms. 

## Features

### Global

#### Navigation menu
- The navigation menu contains links to Home, a Timeline dropdown menu and an events page.
- Users can easily navigate the site, and the dropdown menu assists viewing the site on small screens. 
- A favicon star appears on the navigation menu, to help users know where they are. This is also true for the dropdown menu.
![Snip of navigation bar](/docs/readme_images/nav_snip.jpg)


#### Footer
- The footer contains links to social media sites and an email address, presented with icons. These icons are so familiar, that I didn't think it was necessary to add any additional text. To me it looked cleaner without that. 
- This is for the moment a fictional site, but I do intend to replace my Wix site with this website. In future, the social media links will provide future information on news, US university programs, student experiences and events. 
- The links use aria labels for accessibility.
![Screen shot of footer](/docs/readme_images/footer-snip.jpg)

#### Favicons
- Favicons are used through out the site.
- Logo - Use in the header, nav bar.
- Site wide - for visual interest.
- Navigation bar - to assist user in knowing where they are on the site. 

#### Color scheme
- The color scheme is on an American red, white and blue US flag scheme with the hope of enhancing the user experience fun factor. See credits below.

#### Layout
- Each page has similar layout of an image and an introduction box. It gives user a purpose for each page. The timeline, or stage, page images duplicate the ones used on the landing page for each relevant stage, confirming users are in the right place.

### Landing page
- The landing page gives users a general introduction to the site and a short summary of what to expect from each page of the main content, which is the timeline stages. 
- Photos on the webcards match the top images of each page they relate to. As mentioned above, this helps the user know they are in the right place.
![Homepage snip](/docs/readme_images/Homepage_snip.jpg)

### All timeline pages
- The top/hero image of the page duplicates the one on the homepage, letting users know they are in the right place. 

### Prepare page

-This page summarizes the sorts of things young people should take into consideration when making a big decision about studying abroad. The aim is to help rowers make a short list and set recruiting goals.
- The page summarizes points to consider when presenting yourself to teams. This will help rowers make a document to present to recruiters.
- Beneath this text are 2 resource boxes with loads of further information on recruitment and also standardized tests and where and when to take them in the UK. 
- Favicon stars are used to keep the American theme and add interest.

![Snip of Prepare page](/docs/readme_images/prepare_snip.jpg)

### Contact page
- This page gets rowers to think about the sort of questions they should ask to coaches to find the right fit. There is also a box for communicating to American coaches who expect much less "reserved" behaviour, when it comes to showing excitement and enthusiasm.

![Snip of contact page](/docs/readme_images/commit_snip.jpg)

### Commit page
- This page summarizes the things rowers can expect once they commit to a team, including applications, fees and grants.
- Links to further information are provided.
- Favicons are used to add interest and for quick visual scanning. 

![Snip of commit page](/docs/readme_images/commit_snip.jpg)

### Events page
- This is for the present a fictional page, however if it were to take place, Henley Royal Regatta would be a great place for it as a lot of elite junior rowers would be present. 
- There is short introduction to the event in the introduction box and a simple form with the event details and means to register. 

FIX THE RADIO BUTTONS AND ADD AN IMAGE.


## Design

### Wireframes

### Images
- Small screen focus: This will eventually be a live site I will use. I built a Wix site a year ago that I was unhappy with, and I plan to replace it with this. My experience is that most people look at my site on their phones. With this in mind, I built the sight first for the small screen and then larger ones, and created my media queries to adapt to larger screens instead of smaller.
- Conceptual structure supported by images: Rowers will recognize the prepare, communication, commit headers from their training regimes. The images support this too. The first image is post training, the second of the middle of a race and the third is the result. Communication is essential in during a race, and we have a saying that is to "row your own race". It means you should stick to your plan/goals, inspite of what is happening around you. So, with regard to the site, ussers should set their goals/plan in the prepare phase, stick to those goals and communicate them well in the communication stage, and finally come to a good result. The events page photo is clearly an image of an event. The vast majority of rowers coming to this site will have raced on the Championship course, where all our big head race events happen, and they will recognize that is Hammersmith Bridge.



## Technologies
- Compress images: https://tinypng.com/
- Convert to webp: https://image.online-convert.com/convert-to-webp
https://www.freeconvert.com/download

## Website Testing

#### Navigation bar
##### Logo
- Expected: Clicking on the logo from any page brings you to the homepage.
    - Result: True
##### Navigation Menu
- Expected: Clicking on any link in the navigation menu brings you to the correct page.
    - Result: true
- Expected: A favicon star appears at the correct place in the navigation menu on all pages, and in the dropdown menu.
    - Result: True




#### Webcard links on homepage
- Expected: Webcard buttons on homepage turn red when you hover over them. 
    - Result: True
- Expected: Webcard links bring you to the correct page.
    - Result: True

#### Links to other pages

#### Form

#### Footer
- Footer links bring you to the respective sites.
    - Result: True. The envelope opens the email client. All social media links work. 



### Responsiveness

![Snip from Am I Responsive](/docs/readme_images/responsive.jpg)
### Lighthouse
I used Lighthouse to generate reports to audit performance, accessibility, best practice and SEO for mobile and desktops. The first reports I had were low on performance (under 70%) because my image sizes were far too large. I also had to do some minor work to provide the equivalent of the "alt text" on background images.
- Desktop results
![Lighthouse report for desktop](/docs/readme_images/lighthouse_desktop.JPG)
- Mobile results
![Lighthouse report for mobiles](/docs/readme_images/lighthouse_mobile.JPG)


### Validator testing

- HTML Validator
![HTML Validator snip](/docs/readme_images/html-validator.JPG)
- CSS Validator
![W3C CSS validation service](/docs/readme_images/css-validator.JPG)
### Unfixed bugs


## Deployment

## Credits

Aria labels http://www.davidmacd.com/blog/alternate-text-for-css-background-images.html


    


    /* Credits & notes

Dropdown button from W3 Schools - used CodePen to get it right

Prevent grid from overflowing: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43311943/prevent-content-from-expanding-grid-items

*/
